Add EIP: Revert creation in case of collision (#6733)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-6733.md

---
eip: 6733
title: Revert creation in case of collision
description: Revert contract creation if address already has code
author: Renan Rodrigues de Souza (@RenanSouza2)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-revert-on-address-collision/13442
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2023-03-20
---

## Abstract

There is no current definition to what happens when a contract creation happens in an address with code already deployed. This fix prevents an attack of deploying contract code and later changing the code arbitrarily.

## Motivation

> In [EIP-3607](./eip-3607.md) it was estimated that to create an address collision it would take something about 10 billion USD and this number decreases as computers processing power grow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In [EIP-3607](./eip-3607.md) it was estimated to require 10 billion USD in computing power to create an address collision. This number decreases as computers become more efficient over time.
```
It's worth noting that this is an estimate for *any* address collision. To create an address collision at a specific address, it would require much more computing power, costing around $12,089,258,196,146,292,000,000,000,000,000,000.

The most likely effect of this EIP would be to increase the cost of using the Ethereum network, either as a validator, node, or transaction signer.

Author: I inclused those changes as well

> ## Specification
> 
> In contract creation where `new contract address` has a `CODEHASH != EMPTYCODEHASH` MUST have its current environment execution reverted, where `EMPTYCODEHASH = 0xc5d2460186f7233c927e7db2dcc703c0e500b653ca82273b7bfad8045d85a470`.

Reviewer: This is insufficient.

Also, shouldn't you add a 100 gas cost increase for the equivalent of `extcodesize`?

```suggestion
## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

If a previously-existing account in the state trie would have its code modified by the the `CREATE` or `CREATE2` opcodes, or by transferring ether to the zero address, instead, the call or ether transfer MUST revert. The `CREATE` and `CREATE2` opcodes MUST cost an additional `100` gas.
```

Author: I am not understanding why include the transfer to the zero address. Do you mean a transfer to  ∅ address?

Reviewer: Zero address = $\varnothing$ address

## Rationale

> One of the core tenants of smart contracts is its code being guaranteed not to change. With enougth computing power an attacker can change the code stored in an address to any other code, allowing them to remove funds or transfer tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the core tenants of smart contracts is that its code will not change. However, with sufficient computing power, an attacker can change the code stored in an address, allowing them to steal funds or execute other malicious activity.
```

Author: Thank you for the suggestion, included

## Backwards Compatibility

> There is a very small possibility of this collision happening to contract creation by contracts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an execution layer upgrade, and so it requires a hard fork.
```

Author: I inserted the new line

I would like to understand why the suggestion to remove the previous line 31 if you can give me more details

Reviewer: It's not related to backward compatibility. It's Motivation.

Author: got it
